=== BCN Client Objections ===

tl;dr relate everything to human agents and then show them how they can fix it themselves

Voice Problems
"not natural enough"
"sounds rude"
"doesn't match our brand"
Say
• Acknowledge any issues
• Explain that Poly Voices are the ones where we have the most control
Do
We have so many tools we can demo in Agent
Studio!
Whether it's Response Control, or Audio
Management or even showing them how to run
A/B tests in Agent Voice - this is something we can always object to well
"keeps pronouncing our company name wrong "
Voice is our bread and butter - we believe high quality voice experiences is the key to gaining
customer trust and fostering high performance. Therefore, our platform provides many tools for you
to manage the Voices that you select, and give you a high level of control to optimise them for your
calls.

Intent Accuracy
"it hallucinated"
Say
•An LLM is a Probabilistic model that's using the information it has available
•It's designed to be overly helpful
•Human agents make mistakes too - often due to not having enough information, or the instructions
being unclear
Do
•Raise any recurring issues internally - track these as bugs and avoid hallucination terminology
•Demonstrate Topic Citations in Agent
Studio to provide reassurance around safety
•Educate on Knowledgebase management
"why doesn't it teach itself"
Would you want a human agent to teach themselves, if they made a mistake? Or would you want to
manage their training? Our Agent Studio platform enables you to manage and update all SOPs, just
like with a human agent...

Speech Recognition
"keeps interrupting customers"
Say
• Acknowledge issues that have been raised, and ask for call reviews
• Explain about the trade off between latency and interruption
• If in UAT, explain that latency will improve due to caching
Do
• Gather data points using manual call review to quantify the issue
• If the concerns are valid, ensure that engineering have selected the correct
models
• Agent Studio enablement in Settings
• Highlight strengths in agent recovery
"not very good at collecting names"
"pauses are too long"
Voice is an inherently noisy channel, and while our speech recognition models (developed with NVIDIA) are
optimised for this, errors are inevitable. Poor signal quality, background noise, name variations (John vs Jon), and
customers pausing all affect both humans and AI. This makes strong recovery essential - through allowing
repetition, correction, and other fallback strategies. Our Agent Design team specialises in building these behaviours
and can show you how.

tl;dr agent studio and the new onboarding process will make things better...but also set expectations
upfront

Issue Tracking
"here's 400 calls we reviewed today, please fix all the issues"

Releases
"you're not making changes quick enough"
Expectation Setting Before Go-Live
Accuracy -> Optimisation
First we focus on user experience, then we focus on success metrics!
Updates Post Go-Live
Release Notes!

tl;dr tie everything to the business objectives and ROI

Containment
"it's not containing enough calls"
"that's not a contained call - nothing valuable happened"
External: How do you define Containment?* *Especially with past vendors
Internal: What does their business case require?
Ask
Accommodate: If customers are refuting abandons as "Contained", then use a definition of containment that accommodates
them but also favours us - e.g. Contained, minus calls less than X seconds*
* Unless there is a specific definition we need to match, in accordance with other vendors etc.
Upsell: If the use case is just FAQs, it will not get more than 15-20% Containment. Higher containment will be achieved through
integrated use cases. Use this as an opportunity to talk about future use cases
Do

Additional Success Measures
"here is another arbitrary success measure I've created mid-rollout"
Overall business objectives should be defined upfront, during kick-off. All success
metrics should relate to these business objectives, and you can push back carefully by
inquiring about this. Sometimes - you may need to accommodate additional success
metrics, but this needs to be justified by core business need.

Questions to Ask
External: How does this relate to your high level business objectives?
Internal: Does this directly relate to the business case or to their overall ROI?

PolyAI builds virtual assistants, usually for voice, that empowers callers to engage with a technology that has a bad
reputation. At their best, our assistants are indistinguishable from humans and drastically reduces the need for
humans in a contact centre, reserving them for the callers that need empathy and tact.
Your job is to deliver these agents, to maximise the quality of them and to be client centric.
Your mission as the DS is to turn this into a reality.
You will make our clients feel excited about the work they are doing. You'll chase ROI for our customers, and even
when the measure is blurry, you'll chase engagement for their callers.
This playbook is your guide.
Mission
Our mission is to make everyday customer service feel superhuman, with voice assistants people actually
like.

What We Build
Voice Assistants that are Superhuman
PolyAI builds voice assistants. A good voice assistant is indistinguishable from a human for most tasks. The voices are
respectful, natural, casual and convincing. They don't sound like robots, adverts, or technology.
We do offer text virtual assistants, in chat on the web, via SMS or WhatsApp, or in app. However we build voice first
— this is because it's extremely hard to convert a chatbot to voice, but easier the other way round. Voice has many
nuances such as background noise, crosstalk and bad signal. We therefore do not have any major live chat deployments
today.
Voice Assistants that are Revenue Generating and Cost Saving
Our mission is not to replace contact centre agents, but to ensure that callers get through to humans only when they
require additional empathy, care and tact. Contact centre agents should take the most interesting and complex calls.
They also get the chance to work with us on their virtual agent.
We also can generate revenue. We are careful about how we measure this, as it's often a little out of our control. But we
measure how many bookings we make, abandons we reduce, and try to link hold time reductions to revenue
generation.

Generative vs Intent Based
You should be careful how you talk to clients about this. The exact mechanisms of how we build are not important. PolyAI
uses a hybrid system of both proprietary models and large language models, which are used interchangeably based
on the customer's request. Our systems are predictable and custom.
Generative
A generative AI system answers questions using a knowledge base that customers can edit
Conversational flows can be created in PolyAI's Agent
Studio, again with an LLM at its foundation
Complex flows and high sensitivity ones like 'authentication and verification' flows may be built on
PolyAI's prescriptive NLU model and policy framework by
PolyAI engineers, but generally not.
PolyAI takes a user input and maps it to an 'intent'. The system has prescribed behaviour, so takes a
defined action based on that intent, which might be reading out an FAQ, or proceeding through a flow
The answers the virtual agent gives are pre-written and fixed
Intent Based

We Build on a Generative AI Platform, called Agent Studio
Agent Studio is our platform and control panel for virtual assistants. It contains the knowledge base, flow design, voice
generation, analytics, conversation review and more. Each of these different items can be enabled on a per-client basis.
How We Build
Our platform has...
A configurable Large Language Model, which may be GPT, hosted on Azure AI, or our in-house LLM, known as Raven.
We choose which to use on a per use case basis. Regardless, many client's will understand this as the PolyAI LLM.
A PolyAI Speech Recognition System. Designed and trained in house, this translates audio of human speech into text,
which gets sent to the LLM. It's based on a base model from NVIDIA, who have invested in us, and we build on top of it.
A lifelike hybrid Text to Speech model. We offer samples to our clients that might be a mix of a PolyAI trained voice,
based on an actor that we work closely with, off the shelf voices, or live recordings. Our client's don't pick, they trust us
to use the best hybrid of all three options.

Who Builds
The Deployment Team is a subset of Team Y, a.k.a. The Project
Team or the PS Org
It contains Agent Designers, Deployment Strategists and the
Support team.
Deployment Strategists are the primary client contact for the build of a virtual agent. They own the timeline and the project plans. They
build and manage dashboards, analytics, and success rates. They make the client feel good about what they've purchased.
Agent Designers script the agent and prompt the LLM. They are responsible for the quality of the agent and making it as lifelike as
possible. They own relationships with the voice actors and produce deep analytics.
The Support team manage our service desk, where live and running clients submit fault requests.

Who Builds
Team Y, the wider Project Team, operates in 'pods'
Pods contain scrum masters and engineers, who report into Eddy's org, agent designers, DSs and a CSM.
New projects and clients are assigned to the pods.
The pod makeups may change, but at time of writing are:
Bao, primarily based in the UK and responsible largely for FedEx
Sourdough, primarily based in the UK and responsible for many European clients
Somun, primarily Serbian engineers but responsible for US projects due to EU/UK data transfer rules
Focaccia, based in the UK with global projects
Bagel, based in the US and responsible for US projects and many casino projects
Paratha, based in both the UK and the US, and responsible for global projects
Crouton, based in west coast US, and responsible for PG&E and CLI

This section will run through how to run a project, step by step, using a master diagram. You can view the large diagram by clicking
below, or follow the process through the next few pages.

Deployment Process: Handovers
Sales to Delivery Handoff
This meeting is booked by the AE within 5-10 days of signature. At this point, a DS is
assigned to attend the meeting. Department heads will also join. This meeting has a
structured slide deck. DS's should ensure they know:
• Who the main points of contact are
• The scope, in detail, including integrations, parts that are missing, etc
• Expected timelines
• The commercial structure, ramp period, opt outs, etc
The External Kickoff Meeting
This meeting is booked by the DS after the AE sends an introduction email. Usually, a
client will invite all stakeholders to this meeting, as they expect to know who is
responsible for each step of the process.

Deployment Process: Scope
After kickoff, you should validate the scope of the virtual agent with the client.
Often, the contracted scope will have nuances that will change. We want to be
easy to work with, so some changes should be accepted for free.
For this meeting you should:
• Be extremely familiar with the flow in the order form. A detail oriented DS may
re-create the diagram in a more client friendly way, slightly simplified.
• Not allow the client to leave too much in the open, you want answers, and if the
client cannot answer them, this may delay build
• Be able to add sample API requests and responses, and after the meeting validate all of them in the diagram
• Get final written sign off over email that the scope is final.
This is a technical call and you should feel confident that what you create on
paper can go to our engineering team, and be understood.

Deployment Process: Scope
Major Scope Changes
There may be instances where clients want to change the scope substantially. If
the change would require any timeline change, or significantly more effort, there
are two options.
1.
With the CSM, draft a Scope Change Email        , outlining the change. This is a
formal scope change that the client must confirm. It may come at extra cost,
but this is optional. It may also invalidate opt-out, or cause a timeline extension. Because of this, you should also check with legal before sending.
2. Escalate through the AE. If the scope of the project is entirely different to
what was contracted, the project needs to be transferred back to the solutions consultant team, through the AE. Send a message on the
commercial slack channel, and organise a meeting with relevant team members and your line manager.

Deployment Process: Tech Kickoff
Project Setup Checklist, For the DS
• Create a Notion project page in the projects database. Use the template
• Input contracted milestone dates into the Notion
• Place links to all discovery and contractual information into the Notion
• Create a folder for Smartsheet items in the Project Timelines workspace
• Work with the scrum master to set up a Jira board and workflow
• Create _tech and _telephony slack channels
Compliance
It is possible there will be surprises for our compliance team, especially if the project collects PII (Personal
Identifiable Information) or PHI (Personal Healthcare Information). It is often good to check with our compliance
team, especially if it's a new industry or use case
Internal Tech Kickoff
By this point, a pod should be fully assigned, and the DS organises an internal tech kickoff where they run
through the agreed scope, and agreeing milestone dates. At this point, the engineering lead should begin
planning how long each action might take, and working backwards from the contracted go live date.

Deployment Process: Timeline
Create the Client Facing Timeline
You will create a client facing timeline, and get sign off from engineering. There is a template available in Smartsheet       to use
as a basis. It is important that this is up to date, day by day, and used to show the client when and how we are on track. The
most effective way to hold a client to account is to assign then actions on this timeline.
You should add line items for every detailed action. You can use the lucid chart for this section of the playbook to help map out
each line item. Be aware you should be able to explain them.
Work with the lead engineer in the pod on the dates.
Using Smartsheet
Smartsheet can be tricky to use. However, as these are client facing it is imperative that they are clean, tidy, and
professional. You will want to use this to hold clients to account, and if they are untidy or confusing, they will not be
taken seriously.
Use the table view to enter dates, and then visualise it in the
Gantt view afterwards. Do not set dependencies until you have finished setting dates, however do use the dependency feature to
demonstrate to clients the cascading effect of them being late.
Keep the status up to date at all times.
Use the Smartsheet help guides.

Deployment Process: Building
Client Meetings
We run weekly meetings with the client, often more, to keep them up to date with
progress. In these meetings you will show the action tracker, the timeline and report
progress. You will play voice samples to the client and coach them into picking the
right one. Work closely with the Agent Designer to pick the right voice.

We don't usually ask for preferences, rather send voices that we think would work for
the agent, and then take feedback.
It's also often wise to get an early recording of the real system mid-development to
show progress.
More guides on how to run such daily meetings 

Deployment Process: Building
Telephony Integration and Interoperability document
Your telephony engineer will own this document, however check in frequently to
ensure it is up to date, and that the client is also following their deliverables on time. It
is very easy for the deliverables in this document to slip.
Providing voice samples
Your Agent Designer will generate samples. Listen to them first, and make sure they
are perfect. It's a little tedious to generate samples so don't be afraid to push back if
you find the voice strange.
You should provide no more than three samples to the client upfront, and play them
on a call (there is a template here       ). The more you provide up front, the more limited
the options if they don't like any.
You should always include 'PolyVoices' in the samples. These are voices where we own
the relationship with the voice actor and so can get live recordings later for unusual
pronunciations, or to maximise agent voice quality. Our clients have been sold
superhuman assistants, so PolyVoices give us the most flexibility.

Deployment Process: Building
Keeping Close to the Engineering Team
As a DS, the engineering team are ultimately waiting on your guidance and
timelines. Projects will not move at the pace required unless you are close to the day to
day. You must:
• Be deeply familiar with the bot and it's behaviour. Clients will ask you about it, and
you should be able to answer forcefully and confidently. The bot's design is as much
yours as it is the team's.
• Attend scrum to be aware of day to day deliverables
• Be present in the tech channel, if you are not seeing progress, there may not be
progress. Nobody wants to micromanage, but you must be confident and having the
team report progress. Delays, poor agent quality and client frustration will come if
you cannot justify it.

Deployment Process: Metrics
Defining Metrics
The DS is responsible for defining the metrics required in the project. There are some standard metrics which must be
followed and you should check that these are implemented correctly.
Metrics are 'checkpoints' in a conversation. When a caller hits a point in a conversation, a metric will be written. It could be
something simple like 'BOOKING_INITIATED' which is a single event. Or it could contain data, for example 'QA' which signals a
question was asked but will have a value such as 'PARKING', the name of the FAQ.
Detail on standardised metrics can be found on Notion.        However, there is also a new effort to improve it, which will be
documented soon.
The Consequences of Incorrect Metrics
Metrics are how we measure business cases, and more, with our clients. Getting it wrong can create huge problems and require
time consuming backfilling and extended manual call listening.
You should extensively QA that metrics are being written. QA documents must have an 'expected metrics' column, and you must
validate these on every test call.

Deployment Process: QA and Review
Setting Up QA
The Agent Designer will create the initial QA sheet. This should be detailed
and it should be considered client facing because the UAT sheet will be built
from it.
It should cover every reasonable scenario, including:
• Happy paths
• API integrations, that should be mocked if not possible early in QA
• Unhappy paths and failures
• Standard behaviour such as 'speak to' and 'who are you'
• That all metrics are being written correctly
There is a template available in Agent Design Notion. A good model to check
is that of Pradco / Moultrie Mobile.
Be Ready for Implementation Review
The implementation review board is a new process that will check the agent quality / completeness of QA / metrics and more. . If the project is rejected at this stage, it may result in delaying UAT.

Deployment Process: UAT
Before UAT
Remember, the client is not here to do QA. Be ready, expect 100% pass rate from the team and expect no less. Prepare the QA sheet
for client facing, with scoring using the below criteria. It is your responsibility to make the internal QA sheet client-friendly for UAT.
See an example here.
UAT Kickoff
Use the UAT slide template to explain the difference between functional and behavioural testing and plan testing. Reassure the
client some things won't work but that's normal. You'll be making many changes over the period to improve the system. We'll listen
to every call but priorities the bad CX fails.

Deployment Process: UAT
During UAT
Keep the testing sheet open. Check in frequently and ensure the
Agent Designer and engineer are live commenting on test cases and listening to calls. You can use PolyAI ticket numbers to
reference issues. You can also prioritise them in real time.

The end of UAT
If you have provided good release notes, active check-ins and explained issues, as well as managed a bug tracker, you will likely have an easy time
getting a client to agree UAT is passed, or at least that remaining issues are not go live critical. Use the bug tracker format to prioritise,
demonstrating progress.
If you are struggling, try and set a go live 1-2 weeks out. Book daily meetings to rally the client into going live, and plant the suggested date as
immovable. If you invite third party vendors, and the people you are relying on to go live, it will create pressure on individuals to hit that go live
date.

Deployment Process: UAT
Dashboards
During UAT, you should monitor that metrics are being written correctly, and added to Luzmo. You might need to ask the
engineers to ensure metrics are added to Luzmo.
Advice on building dashboards 

Deployment Process: Pre-Go Live
Once the client says 'Go'
The engineering team will run an HLD meeting. The DS is optional, but this is a critical
internal governance step. Be sure an engineer has written the HLD document in advance of
this meeting.
It is important to then test the live APIs. This may require setting up a call with the customer
to to an end-to-end production test. You should be sure live APIs work before going live.
Give Access to Dashboards 1.
Ask the client for a list of emails who will need access to dashboards 2. Post the list of emails and the region in #studio_portal_access_request channel and email
the same list to user-access@poly-ai.com. Wait for positive acknowledgement.
3. Add the user to Agent Studio.
All clients are added to jupiter.polyai.app / jupiter.uk-1.polyai.app, regardless of their project
setup. Give them access to custom analytics only on day one. No client should be given
access to platform.polyai.app.
Give Access to Statuspage
Instructions are found here

Deployment Process: Go Live
Daily Hypercare meetings
Agree you will run daily meetings for 1 or 2 weeks as soon as possible. The sooner you plant the seed
about the duration of this process, the more likely it is to stick. Otherwise, they may extend it forever. In
these meetings you should:
• Show and add to a bug tracker
• Send release notes to the clients for every push to live — if you are doing work show it off
• Use the dashboard to show KPIs
• Play live calls, including good and bad ones. Pick calls that aren't catastrophic but show out of scope
topics or issues you know can be resolved, this helps build trust
Go Live Email
You must send an email to the client's main stakeholders, cc Nathan and legal, and confirm go live.
Post in #general in Slack
Celebrate the team with details of the project, a call recording and more in the #general channel in Slack.
The Bridge Call
To go live, you should join a longer (2 hour) call with the client to pull the trigger and monitor live calls. This
is important as you want to be the one to play the first good and the first bad call. If you own and lead
this meeting, championing how good the bot is, and mapping improvements onto the bug tracker, you
own the narrative. Think of it as an initial hypercare meeting.

Deployment Process: Shifting to BAU
CSM Increasing their Role
As the system is now build, the CSM will increase their role, leading more meetings. They should
have been present throughout the build, but now will take an active role in ensuring the
customer is fully enabled for BAU, and is confident about their ROI.
Criteria to Exit Hypercare
This criteria is in the kickoff deck, and should be adhered to.
For detailed information on the support process, you should look at the support playbook.
For smaller accounts, we are implementing a credit system, reflected in the diagram.
Requests for changes will use a credit allowance. This is managed by the CSM and support.

QBR/MBR
For clients who are larger, there will be a monthly recap meeting set up by the CSM.
The CSM and DS work together to collate the releases from the past month, metrics,
and suggested improvements.
Please see CS guidance on how to lead these meetings.
The next slides will run through how to run a project kickoff. This is the DS's first meeting with the client.
The introduction slide is straightforward.
The DS is the main contact for the deployment, and the client should reach
out to you primarily. That avoids miscommunication. It's also a good time to get
a single point of contact from the client.
You'll want to introduce anyone else on the call in addition to the concept of a
Agent Designer and a customer success manager — there for long term support.
You must change this slide depending on the project. Some will not have a
CSM, so you can remove that.

You should walk through a very high level view of what the agent will do. What is it meant to do from a high level
— deflect calls from a contact centre or resolve a call type?
Read the order form before the meeting and be confident in what the customer is looking to do.
There will be a more detailed scope run through, so no need to dwell on this for long.

The build process is four stages and you'll walk through them one by one.
Starting with design, you can describe this as when we finalise the customer experience of the agent. Our
designers will consume the FAQ information provided and make the agent come to life.
We'll run through the flows, kickoff telephony integration and the client will get to choose their voice.
This is also the final opportunity to make any changes to what you want to build before we hand over to
engineering.

We often describe the 'build' stage as a quieter stage where the PolyAI team are 'heads down'.
We'll still want the client to support on weekly meetings and to motivate their telephony supplier.
It's good to explain how we'll still fill this period by introducing the client to:
• how to interpret dashboards
• how to talk about our agents with contact centre staff
• talk about design methodology
• introduce them to self serve tools
• introduce the BAU support process.
All of these are coming in new decks in collaboration with CS soon, but even though we don't yet have
content, you should cover off these topics in this period.

We like to describe UAT as where the fun starts. This is what most of our clients enjoy, getting to experience the PolyAI virtual agents for the
first time. For this section of the deck, read through the deliverables and explain we'll be making updates nearly daily and will be really high
touch.
You can describe how we'll provide a comprehensive test plan to ensure the agent launches well, as well as a guide for contact centre staff,
which is the UAT kickoff guide described later.

It's good to give a brief overview of what to expect on go live day.
This slide includes four examples of how we might roll out. Ultimately, we want more calls as
quickly as possible, so build confidence with the client so that they agree ideally to numbers 1 or 2
on this list.
Familiarise yourself with projects that launched in these ways.

It's important to highlight that we are still closely involved post launch. For hypercare, a usually two
week period, we'll have daily catchup calls. We'll journey map by playing real calls.
Nathan likes to make a joke here: we'll play you great calls and also the really really terrible ones,
because there will be one upset person, and we should learn from it.
This helps set expectations.
Hypercare is not infinite, describe it as two weeks. There are criteria listed on the slide for
how to pass hypercare. During hypercare, which is , you should follow this
checklist.
Try not to describe this as the 'end', it's when we decide to move on to the next phase.

Make sure the client knows that we are going to project manage for them.
We'll provide a detailed gantt chart which is a live website they can follow.
This will come later in the process, towards the end of the design phase.

In the mean time, to comfort the client, provide some generic milestone dates.
This is your chance again to reset expectations. Set the go live for something probably a tiny bit longer than they
expect, and that way you can move it forward on request.

The first shows how we will report data. There will be dashboards, usually updating every few hours which will
be where you'll spend most of your time monitoring performance. You can export as an Excel, CSV, or
however you like.
Make sure they know we also have an API so you can import the data into your existing tools like PowerBI or
Tableau. This usually gets a positive reaction.
There are two slides to talk about reporting.
The second slide is either the contractual or proposed success criteria.
Get alignment on this — this is what the contract says, this is the definition. Does everyone understand it?
You'll later add this to the dashboards.

The scope run through is the second meeting with the client. You'll go through FAQ information or step by step through the flows. This is difficult, technical, and involved.

In order to maintain project quality, before going into UAT, there will be an 'implementation review board' meeting. In this
meeting, held at least 7 days before the planned client UAT kickoff, a set of requirements will be presented to the most senior
engineer, Agent Designer and DS in the team. As of Feb 2025, these are Eddy, Arkadiusz and Nathan.
The meeting agenda is as follows:
1. Brief overview of project functionality 2. Walk through completed QA sheet
3. Show metrics configuration 4. Run through checklists 5. Approval by Eddy, Nathan, and Arkadiusz
The outcome of the meeting will be one of three things:
Approved - The project can proceed to UAT on time
Approved with Conditions - The project can proceed to UAT on time provided that a set of conditions are met asynchronously,
before the UAT Starts
Rejected - The project cannot proceed to UAT and the Implementation Review Board must be run again.

The checklists that require completion are in Notion. Use the template to create a new Notion
page to prepare for the meeting.
The checklists are split into three categories.
QA
Containing evidence that QA was completed to a high standard and all aspects of the virtual agent
were tested. Includes some specific frequent points of failure. Also includes evidence of metrics
being fully and properly implemented to given standards
Project Behaviour Standards
A list of behaviours that are expected to be present in all virtual agents. All standard project
behaviours should be tested as part of QA
Logistical / Process
A list of process requirements that should be complete by the time the board is met, including
creating the UAT contents and ensuring metrics are in Luzmo.

This is how you introduce UAT. You'll be setting expectations here, so explaining this well is critical.
The first slide of the UAT kickoff deck contains the test phone number.
It also sets expectations on a few common misconceptions about UAT. It won't be perfect.
The voice may change or be generated for the first time causing latency. And handoffs are
usually disabled in UAT.
On this slide, you should also add if the agent is using sandbox APIs.

It is extremely common for clients to misunderstand
UAT and cause us significant problems.
Therefore it is very important that you familiarise yourself with and understand the different types
of testing, and the client should do.
We want to be very distinct and serious about the difference between functional testing, which will use
our prescriptive UAT sheet, and edge case testing, which is when a client tests in a less structured way.
You should explain that functional tests are the test cases we give you that are scripted and should
work every time. After they are complete, then the team can do edge case testing, which is their own
exploration.

We use a scoring system for functional testing.
After this deck is complete, you will walk the client through the testing sheet. 
You should also talk through the scoring system and make sure they understand it.
If the client understands this, and accepts we can go live provided all test cases are in
the top three scores, you will have a much easier time convincing them to launch.

Finally, use the final slide in the template to create some conversation scripts to
explain how to test. You can show that you can slightly go off topic, or avoid
loops.
You might also like to play a few live calls or make a live test call together.
Following this, walk through the actual UAT sheet. Use the example on page 21.

Release Log
When we push to live, we must update a release log. This is a compliance requirement,
adds professionalisation, and is good defence against a client. This must always be
updated. It is owned by the DS for build and hypercare, and then can be transitioned
to CS or the scrum master.
The release log template        table includes a release date, a deployment owner, a version
number and a list of changes. They are stored in a shared Google Drive. These should:
• Be in readable english and generally non-technical
• Include ticket numbers, including the support desk external ticket number where
relevant
• Have evidence of QA
There is a separate box for QA, which is our evidence to a client that we have done due
diligence and tested the virtual agent. It is acceptable to put minor known issues in here.
An internal QA doc can be included that the DS can later refer to as evidence.
Regardless of the size of the push, a release log must be added. There is a Google Docs
shortcut, just type @Release Log to auto-insert the table.
To share this with a client, either share the live Google Doc or export as a PDF and send
periodically.

Good analytics dashboards are vital to your projects being a success.
There is no compromise in the detail and professionalism. This section will highlight the minimum things to look out for when creating a
dashboard, based on the Fogo de Chao dashboard.
Neat, symmetrical, layout
The most important success rates  for the client are at the top
Color palette matches the client's brand standard
Trends are useful, weekly for overall success and daily for 'at the moment' check-
ins. The top graph could also be hourly.

Easy to understand, grouped categories of call reasons. These aren't raw metrics, but
understandable, natural english categories
Most important to every client is knowing how to get better. This pie chart shows it
Containment is measured per-topic

Filters to highlight specific calls for deeper analysis
The raw call log is a vital dashboard to see detail, per call information. It's a simple table to make.
Dashboard set to link directly to conversations review
Virtually every important metric is in this table (hidden)

Many clients will have very specific requirements or industry specific data. Create a different dashboard for this.
Restaurant excess demand dashboards show where PolyAI is turning customers away because
there is no availability

When you go on PTO, it is vital to create a good handover document so that your cover knows exactly what to deliver.
Never book holiday over a UAT or go live period. As you have a timeline in smart sheet and a go live date range, you know
when not to book holiday.
When taking PTO:
• Create a Notion page
• List all your projects
• List deliverables that must be complete at the end of your holiday, in detail,
including the tools that another DS will need to be able to complete that task
• List the main contacts for each project
• Invite your cover to scheduled meetings
• Send an email to the client to introduce them to your cover

Early Project Objections: Scope
Can I review the design of a virtual agent before you build it?
Yes, we'll have a scope meeting to run through the flow logic. We'll also be able to share the knowledge base the
virtual agent is using to answer the caller. Please share your brand guidelines to help us, but we'll take the first shot
as our team must get the foundation working first.
How many FAQs can I have?
There is no hard limit on the amount of topics. And each topic will be able to answer many different questions,
depending on how a caller asks it. However, to start we recommend no more than 50, to prevent overlap. We'll then
track all of the out of scope customer requests and decide which more to add.
Why should I pay / take on risk to send SMS?
Directing a customer to another channel through SMS is a very effective way of gracefully deflecting customers. In
one project with over 30% total containment, calls where an SMS is sent are contained over 85% of the time. This
goes for integrations too — when PolyAI does something for a customer, they have a better experience.

Early Project Objections: Scope
Can I start with a small number of FAQs and add more later?
Yes, but it's important we know a broad range of things a caller might be asking about so we can deal with it
properly. Do you have data on how many times questions are asked, so we can prioritise by volume?

Early Project Objections: Voice
Can I use my own voice actor?
We have a large selection of voices to choose from. Some of these are our own PolyVoices, which you won't find
anywhere else and are trained on our own data and voice actors. Others are 'off the shelf' voices. To train new
voices, we pay significant license fees, and conduct studio recording. We aren't quite in the position to clone any
voice at the moment. If you are unsure, pick a PolyVoice.

Early Project Objections: Metrics
Can I measure customer satisfaction / CSAT?
Yes, there are a few options.
1. We can do a voice survey, but on contained calls only, because we don't want to put a survey before the
customer is transferred to a human, that's annoying. These results will appear in PolyAI dashboards.
2. You can provide us a survey link and we can send it via SMS on the end of every call. These results will appear on
your end.
Generally, we advise CSAT questions ask specifically about the 'virtual agent' as in our experience customers tend
to use surveys to complain about anything, not just the virtual agent.
If setting this up is going to take time, we can use other proxies for CSAT like call length and containment for the
specific flows.

Early Project Objections: Content
I want the agent to introduce itself as a virtual assistant.
We tend to suggest not doing this. People generally don't like voice assistants, and we need to have one chance to
build some trust with the caller without them knowing. If a caller asks, of course we'll tell them we are a virtual
agent but we see about a 25% uplift in containment when we don't declare we are AI. We don't want to fool anyone
into thinking they are talking to a human, we want them to forget that they aren't.
I'm worried about customer experience so I want to change this FAQ so it transfers more easily
Yes, we can do this. We will warn you that we find when you offer a transfer, the customer nearly always says yes.
Of course, particularly unhappy customers or vulnerable ones will always get transferred.
Note: use discretion. Are we meant to contain this call topic or is it completely out of scope? Usually common sense
will tell you when to say yes or no to this.

Early Project Objections: Content
Can I use the bot to market my brand? / I want to use this slogan in this FAQ response
We're happy to help with that, we think that engaging customers is most important so don't want to put any off-
putting marketing, or anything that sounds like it a robot. We want customers to pay attention and have a natural
conversation, so usually avoid it. How do you tell your contact centre staff to promote things, do they say the
same? If not, the bot shouldn't.
How are you going to deal with vulnerable customers, I want to transfer them.
We can detect vulnerable callers through keywords and the topic of the call to transfer them quickly. Can you give
us what topics you want immediately transferred? We can test them in UAT

Early Project Objections: Call Listening
Can I listen to calls?
Yes. After go live, we'll have daily catch up calls and we will play you both the best and the worst calls so we can do
journey mapping. Then we'll give you an API and platform so you can pull the audio yourself, and also mark calls for
re-training.
Note: We should be careful here. We do allow customers to listen to calls, however the perception of PolyAI can
change. Especially when we move on to other projects, customers may feel their agent is degrading. Make sure
when you introduce call listening, you do on a screen share, and have a session to consult them on how to listen
productively and find both good and bad calls. Getting this wrong will make your work harder.

UAT / Live Call Objections: Quality of Recognition
It won't understand me / every time I say X it doesn't work
We'll look at all the calls, let's look together. I'll add it to the issue tracker. This is why it wasn't understood...
The best way to handle objections during UAT is to fix it. The client will come across things that aren't understood,
but you know they can be fixed fast. It's also good to explain why: look, we were missing this word from the training
data, for example.
It doesn't work with background noise
We'll adjust the latency threshold. Sometimes it's a fine balance as if we make it less sensitive to background noise,
the agent might interrupt people. We've got everything set to the default, we'll adjust from there when we go live/

UAT / Live Call Objections: Voice
The latency is bad, there are long pauses
We'll make some adjustments. There is a trade off here, the shorter we make the latency the more likely it'll
interrupt. I wouldn't worry too much at this stage, we'll tweak and over time you'll see it improving.
Note: The engineering team have a few steps to take here. You should not accept anything more than 3 seconds at
an absolute maximum. You should make sure the engineering are not overriding VAD, that they have used the
latency graph generator to see if there are low hanging fruit, and also that they have delay responses such as 'one
second' and 'umm' and 'i'm just looking that up' enabled. Don't take no for an answer!
Why can't I interrupt the virtual assistant or barge in?
We have this feature, we be learned that agents perform much better when it's turned off. This is because
sometimes a customer will interrupt and miss and important part of the agent's speech, or a question the virtual
agent needs to ask. We're working on improving it, and will let you know.

UAT / Live Call Objections: Metrics
Does containment include people hanging up? How do I know they are good calls?
Yes, containment is our true, unadulterated future that shows simply how many people are not transferred to an
agent. Let's create a success measure ourselves that removes callers who don't interact, short calls, and more.
Note: Often, the contract will contain a defined success criteria. You should make sure dashboards show that
criteria beside containment. However, be careful about creating criteria we can't control. For example, a booking
success rate should not include cases where there is no availability or we are not permitted to make the booking in
the denominator.
The dashboard doesn't match our figures?
The dashboard is sometimes delayed a small amount, I'll look into that. What time range and time zone are you
setting on the dashboard?
Note: You may need to reset Luzmo warp. Next, check the time zone on the dashboard. Ask the client to give you
their data to compare.

Internally Escalating
There are many slack channels for escalating questions
Sometimes you or an engineer might meet the end of the road in solving a client problem. Look to the right team to
help.
#DSs-internal, to chat to just the DSs #ask-agent-studio, for questions or problems with the Agent Studio web app
#ask-voice, for things related to the voice team, such as latency, speech recognition or speech synthesis
#ask_legal, for questions about the contracts or permissions for your clients
#ask-portal, is for questions about the legacy PolyAI portal for intent based agents
#studio_or_portal_access_request, when you need to give a client access to Agent Studio
#ask-analytics, for dashboard related queries

Escalating Well
You will have difficult projects, and it is important to know how to use your 1-1s, account reviews, and other meetings to escalate
and ask for help at the right time.
Which Category Does the Problem Fall into?
The problem does not pose an immediate risk to the task/ project/org. You are in control to resolve it.
The problem is site sensitive/serious and there are risks/ consequences involved. You may be in control and need
managerial support.
Actions to Take
•Inform only
•Communicate your solution via slack or in a 1-1
•No actions needed from the manager
•Let your manager decide whether they want to step in and help
•Escalate quickly and specify action needed from manager
•Communicate via slack immediately, and discuss further in 1-1s
•Communicate the solution

Technical Guides

Telephony In General
• PolyAI preferred telephony set up
• This is telephony 'over the internet', connected by a SIP Trunk. A
SIP trunk is created by the telephony provider on your project to allow for calls to be routed to PolyAI and from PolyAI back to the
client
• Allows for sending of information on call termination and handoff e.g. handoff reason and FAQ asked
• Set up time can vary depending on vendor see the next slides for more information
Telephony will either be connected via SIP or PSTN. Read more on telephony here
SIP (Session Initiation Protocol)
PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network)
•  Traditional legacy phone network
• Phone to phone with no need or requirement of the internet
• Very fast to set up (1-2 days) but has low capability e.g. cannot send any additional conversation information to a human
agent on handoff
• To complete the integration:
• PolyAI will set up a phone number for the agent
• Vendors will route their private number to the new PolyAI number
• Vendors may need to set up a 'secondary' number that
PolyAI sends calls back to on transfer
The following guides mention the SIP Interoperability Doc. This is a document that acts as a project plan, run by an engineer. It's worth
checking in frequently on the document to make sure it's up to date. You can also show it to key project stakeholders to describe the
process.

How to: Generic SIP
Send our SIP Workbook
Interoperability doc created by Engineering
Telephony Kick Off &
Timeline Agreed
Things to Remember
• Ensure an SoW is in place between the client and the vendor
• Make use of the telephony slack channel and telephony engineers
• Kickoff early
• Ensure dates in the interoperability doc are in the main project timeline
• Have at least one-two weeks between the telephony vendor completing their work
and go live

How to: Five9
Email Five9 Team for initial setup
Interoperability doc created by Engineering
Telephony Kick Off &
Timeline Agreed
Things to Remember
• Five9 are slow, and an SoW may be required between the client and Five9. You will
want to start this progress immediately at kickoff, without delay.
• Five9 will assign a resource, such as a project manager. Keep pushing for a kickoff
meeting with them.
• Five9 has a multi-tenant SIP trunk that connects to PolyAI in the USA. Some clients
assume that an entirely new trunk needs to be provisioned. It does not.
• Five9 will typically send us a SIP document for us to complete.
Detailed Architecture Information

How to: NICE inContact / CXOne
Email for setup, requesting pseudo numbers
Interoperability doc created by Engineering
Telephony Kick Off &
Timeline Agreed
Things to Remember
• There are two ways to connect to NICE.Each client has their own set of pseudo
numbers assigned to them by NICE. We can either use these numbers or our connector auth token to route calls to a project. Ask your telephony engineer which
they prefer, and propose it.
• NICE uses the same IPs across all clients, so we can use the shared nice connector
service integration.
Detailed Architecture Information

How to: Payments and PCI
Discussing with a client
We can take payments and make card holds securely using most payment gateways
and providers. The payment will be taken in a secure section of the call that PolyAI does
not and cannot record. PolyAI will be able to generate a token, or execute a payment.
Card payments and ACH are generally supported. Our PCI documentation is available
on request.
Payments are generally specified in the order form, along with the payment gateway.
Internally / Technical Detail
We use Twilio Pay to securely take the payment. This service handles the payment so
PolyAI is unable to see the private card information. For payment providers that Twilio
Pay supports out of the box (e.g. Stripe, Braintree, Base Commerce, Card Connect) we
can build immediately. Your engineer will tell you which details we need from the client.
If the payment provider is not supported by Twilio, check to see if it is supported by
Shuttle.       If it is not supported by Shuttle, we can pay Shuttle PS for them to build a
connector. Shuttle allows us to use additional payment providers with Twilio Pay.
PolyAI can take card payments over the phone, using third party
PCI compliant systems.

Top Tips

be a human
Build a connection with your clients and humanise yourself. Make them feel smart, make them feel like
they came up with ideas. Have a story behind your decisions. Be vulnerable, you're in this together with
your clients.

avoid conflict
Blame process, not yourself. Be firm when saying no, but try and make it a 'yes but'. Frame your noes as
opportunities. Avoid conflict, especially early. Usually you can find an agreement, or be vulnerable and
make them understand why something might not be so simple.

create a cushion
Pad your timelines upfront, and adjust later to accommodate. Make it clear you are flexible. Emphasise the
great services we provide for our clients, our malleability and how custom deployments can be. UNDER
PROMISE, OVER DELIVER.

make scope creep a win
Don't say 'it's out of scope'. Say, 'let's explore it'. Read back scope status regularly to manage scope creep
gently. Accept a few small changes to avoid the big ones. Use the scope run through meetings effectively.

perception matters
Make the team seem bigger than it is, especially for large clients. Bring in engineers and Agent Designers
and emphasise them. Call them leads and talk about their teams. Build credibility with out expertise. On-
sites are incredibly valuable, people are much nicer and more reasonable in person. Travel.

=== How to Not Suck (1) ===
How To Be A Good Deployment Strategist

Teamwork
"The strength of the team is each individual member. The strength of each member is the team."
— Phil Jackson
We need each other.

You Are The Driver
You are NOT a messenger of the client.
You lead with expertise and are a deployment master.
You guide, push, persuade, and control narratives.

Internal Communications - Handover notes need to be in the public DS channel — no backchanneling
- VOLUNTEER AND SUPPORT YOUR DSs WHEN THEY'RE OUT — THIS IS NOTICED - Force yourself to be in uncomfortable situations - this is how you grow
Hype your team.
Have their back.
Be there for them.
Own Morale.
Post Go Lives in General.

Emails
Emails are not simply recaps
They are to RE-ASSERT YOUR NARRATIVE while providing crucial client updates.

A Bad Email:
-
Regurgitates well known facts -
Asserts nothing -
Has incorrect formatting or is unhuman (don't use LLMs to write you an email, it is obvious)
A Good Email(er):
-
Controls Narrative (See last email with bad/neutral call- "... so not a true gap on our side"
-
Is human (emojis/human language) -
Knows time and place for formality
Emails

Organization
The documentation for a given project post-sales lies with
YOU
Organized UAT sheets
Strong Acceptance Criteria Documentation
Weekly Slides
Begin Weekly Calls with Timeline/Action Tracker/Slides

-Do not invoke others in calls if you feel you are setting them up for failure
-The team needs to be allies to the client, not blockers -Tee up talking points for your internal members
-Client calls are a dance especially when there's tension -Talk HIGHLY about your colleagues. Don't just say they're a member of the team, say they are the lead, or the head, etc.

Control Narrative
You're a storyteller.
- Tell stories with data - Talk about achievements/past client triumph -
Push for more and have faith in the internal team -
Whip up quick slide decks when necessary IE: Post hypercare with a client that's still not 100% bought in. After a competitive POC or
bakeoff.

Learn to Live in Ambiguity
YOU are the person to get the project out of the mud.
DSs fill in GAPS
ESCALATE
Lean on AEs/CSAMs for Commercial/Account Level Concerns

Listening to Calls
DO THE WORK -
Force ADs to schedule QAs -   Do metrics QAs -
UNDERSTAND YOUR METRICS -
Proactively log issues that you feel the client would be upset over - learn how to prioritize

Dashboarding
If you don't know the data well, your efficacy as a "strategist" is greatly depleted.
Look at other client datasets and dashboards.
Obsess over quality and make it fun for the client.

Data Hygiene - Dashboarding and otherwise - Don't mix clients up — whether it be an email or an Excel
- You want them to think they are important while also holding boundaries - Know when to invoke the support team and when to do things yourself

Use Agent Studio
If you don't know how to make a KB change, use real time config, or update pronunciations in Audio Management...
You should.
Pay attention to product all hands. Watch enablement sessions.
SELF START

Know How to Use AI to Make Life Easier - Formatting Data/Various Data tasks
- QS queries - It's very easy to use Claude for QS if you're unsure - Notetaking (Granola/Gong) - there is no excuse for
"forgetting"  track everything
There's so much at your disposal.

Learn Their Business & Know Your Stuff
It is on you and the AD to learn their business together.
You are THEIR AI SME.
You need to know the important metrics, the run rate utilization, the go live dates (roughly), etc.

Quick Tips - If something doesn't sit right with you, do something about it. IE: Regenerate audio yourself
-
Do not use the word outage to describe API errors - do not call into question PolyAI's uptime/etc.
-
You don't always have to think quickly on your feet. Confidently saying "I don't know" is okay
-
DON'T PASTE API CREDENTIALS INTO SLACK -
Understand CSAMs are there to support for build but you should not lean on them. We can introduce them but do
not characterize them as people to assist during the build phase

=== Processes and bits ===
The Goal
To create a checkpointed project delivery method, with clear benefits and expectations.

Why should we change how we work?

This is not an exercise in micromanagement
Why?
Changing our mindset from start up to scale up while staying on top of quality
Increasing client visibility and expectation
Processes are made to:
•
Protect you and the team
•
Reduce rework and ambiguity
•
Help us to defend against hostile client situations

Everything's Changing
Yes and no...
There is no change to...
• Expectations - same requirements just with a process behind it
• IRBo
We're trialling formalised...
• Pre-build check-ins
• Post go-live check-ins
• Monthly DS retro's

Pre-build Check-In
The objective: Ensure we've set the project up for success.
Unearth the unknowns and level set the project teams understanding of the project scope, timeline, and design.
MVP Documentation:
Kick-off Deck
Timeline
Action tracker
Scoping document
Create your project- tech channel when assigned to the project
Add your manager/Rob/Tori to the slack channel
Add your project on the 'Lists' page
Create your projects notion page
Add the MVP
Documentation for this phase of the project

Hypercare Check-in - Almost there
Post-Go-Live - 2 week check in
The objective: To understand the client sentiment so far and ensure we're acting in the best interest of PolyAI and
the client.
The expectation:
Hypercare progressing
Call reviews by the team
Dashboards (Standard and additional for further discovery)
Up to date release notes
Trigger: hitting 2 weeks post go-live
Review with your manager...
Hypercare sheet
Deployment team reviews
Release notes
Dashboards
Use this time to get input and advice on the project.
You are the mini-CEO during the deployment; how can you push the account to be better and grow?

Hypercare Check-in - Penultimate slide
Post-Go-Live - 4 week check in
The objective: To showcase your knowledge and understanding of the client, their use case, and how PolyAI can help them in
future.
The expectation:
Hypercare complete or planned for completion
Present your response to:
How are we tracking towards KPIs?
What can we do to improve on the KPIs (if not met) / what 3 things can we change or propose to the client?
How are we tracking towards utilization?
Prove that your clients have pushed a change to live

=== Quick Reference Q&A (slides / DS) ===

Question: I need help with making slides
Answer: Check this out - it has lots of icons that you can use that are all in PolyAI brand/style: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1E2raETxju6M2e31CJY_daKzOk7EWh5mJ

Question: How do I download the fonts?
Answer: You can download them on the deployments playbook - https://www.notion.so/polyai/Deployments-Playbook-fb6e81d5a5d947ecb2f9571dc7fe4e8f

Question: Where can I see my client's order form or contract?
Answer: Here - https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1CKZV8Hx7z4nGz2d1aGm6oyvzoTybqR58

Question: I'm having issues with ASR / barge in
Answer: Reach out to #ask_runtime, as this is the team responsible for this.

Question: I have a question about deployment strategy
Answer: See the deployments playbook: https://www.notion.so/polyai/Deployments-Playbook-fb6e81d5a5d947ecb2f9571dc7fe4e8f

Question: I don't understand telephony / do you have any telephony resources?
Answer: Ping Rob directly - there are recordings for telephony that explain the process well.

Question: What is a telephony intro call like?
Answer: We should bring on an FDE to explain the process and run through the SIP workbook if needed!}


=== Agent Studio Client Training Sessions (Session 1 - Training V1.0 NOV25) ===

There is a dedicated training deck for running Agent Studio onboarding sessions with clients. This is separate from the Agent Studio Academy (which is for DSes to learn on their own). The deck is used to run structured sessions with the client's team post-go-live.

OVERVIEW: Three training sessions are built into the deployment process to get clients up to speed on how to analyse customer data and manage their own agent.

Session 1 – Intro to PolyAI Agents (45 minutes)
Objective: Understand PolyAI's build methodologies and the capabilities of Agent Studio.
Agenda covers:
- What is Agent Studio?
- The PolyAI Difference (Agent Design principles)
- Agent Studio Platform Tour
- Recap and Next Session Preview
- Questions

Session 2 – Building and Managing Voice Agents (Hands On)
Objective: Know how to use Agent Studio with an interactive experience — updating KBs, setting up AB tests, and managing voices.

Session 3 – Your Virtual Agent (Hands On)
Objective: Explore the client's own virtual agent as the build is completed, and learn how to use agentic analysis tools on their own data.

KEY CONTENT FROM SESSION 1 DECK:

What is Agent Studio?
Agent Studio is PolyAI's virtual agent command center where clients manage their agent's performance. It has two core functions:
- Update and Build: Intuitive builder tools to update facts, hours, personality, voices, and more when a call could have been better.
- Manage and Analyze: Agentic features like Smart Analyst to surface the best and worst calls — no need to spend hours listening to calls.
These two things are linked so clients can quickly prioritise improvements based on real data. Agent Studio is also where PolyAI Agent Designers and Engineers do most of their work.

Agent Studio Architecture:
Agent Studio is the control layer for PolyAI's proprietary technologies, including: PolyAI LLM (Raven), GPT, Claude and other LLM options; Speech to Text Engine; Text to Speech Engine and Voice Library; Knowledge Base and Flows; Retrieval Engine; Analytics Database; Smart Analyst; Sentiment Analysis; Conversation Reviews.

The PolyAI Difference – Agent Design Principles:
- Gain Trust, Quick: Start calls with a lifelike, brief "How can I help?" and let users explain their intent naturally.
- Guide the User: Utterances should implicitly guide the expected response. "What's your name?" is better than "Can I take your name?" (which can get a yes/no).
- Listen Robustly: Handle a large range of likely responses so users aren't stuck in loops.
- Give Feedback: Feed back that the caller has been understood. E.g. respond to a booking request with "Sure, I can make that booking."
- Support Correction: Always allow callers to correct themselves and undo actions. Read back complex data.
- Act Efficiently: Allow callers to volunteer multiple pieces of information upfront and don't ask again.
- Speak Clearly and Naturally: Brevity is critical. LLMs can be verbose — keep KB content tight so the agent sounds human.
Real examples: A UK bank saw 26% increase in call handling by shortening its greeting. A US utilities firm reduced requests to speak to a human by 23% by removing "I'm a virtual assistant" from the greeting.
